In recent videos, we've
discussed off-policy learning.
In this video,
we'll see how to do
off-policy prediction
with Monte Carlo.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to
understand how to use
important sampling
to correct returns,
and you will understand
how to modify
the Monte Carlo
prediction algorithm
for off-policy learning.
Recall the goal of
Monte Carlo estimation.
We would like to estimate
the value of each
state by computing
a sample average over returns
starting from that state.
We run into an issue, however,
when we try to estimate
the value under target policy,
Pi, using returns following
a behavior policy, b.
If we simply average the returns,
we saw from state s
under the behavior b,
we will not get the right answer.
We have to correct
each return in the average.
This is just what
important sampling is for.
All we have to do is
figure out the value
of Rho for each of
the sampled returns.
Rho, here, is the probability
of the trajectory under
Pi divided by the probability
of the trajectory under b.
This Rho corrects
the distribution
over entire trajectories,
and so corrects
the distribution over returns.
Using this correction, we
get back what we want,
the expectation of
the return under Pi.
To compute Rho, we need to
figure out how to compute
the probability of
a trajectory under a policy.
Let's consider the probability
distribution over trajectories.
We read this probability as,
given that the agent
is in some state as t,
what is the probability
that it takes
action A_t then ends up
in state S_t plus 1,
then, it takes action A_t plus
1 and ends up in S_t plus 2,
and so on, until
termination at time T?
All of the actions are sampled
according to behavior b.
Because of the Markov property,
we can break this
probability distribution
into smaller chunks.
The first chunk is
the probability that
the agents likes action A_t in
state S_t times the probability
that the environment transitions
into state S_t plus 1.
The second chunk gives
the probability of
the next time step of
experience, and so on.
We can rewrite this list of
producted probabilities
using the product notation.
Now, we've defined
the probability
of a trajectory under b.
Remember where we are going.
We would like to define Rho
using the probability of
the trajectory under Pi and
the probability of
the trajectory under b.
Let's plug these probabilities
into our definition of Rho.
As we saw in a previous video,
we can take these
probabilities and
multiply them by
the importance sampling ratio.
The transition dynamics
of the environment
cancel out on each time step.
This leaves us with
only a product over
the ratios between policies
at each time step.
Now, let's get back to
estimating V_Pi off-policy.
The agent observes many returns,
each according to
the behavior policy b.
We can estimate V_Pi using
these returns by correcting
each return with Rho.
Now, let's look at how
we would implement this.
First, recall the on-policy
Monte Carlo prediction algorithm.
There are two changes that
will need to be made here.
First, the episode will
not be generated following
Pi but will be
generated following b.
Second, the return will
need to be corrected
using the product of the
important sampling ratios.
By making these changes,
we end up with the off-policy
Monte Carlo prediction algorithm.
Notice the episode is now
generated following
the behavior policy.
The return is corrected
by a new term W,
which is the
accumulated product of
important sampling ratios on
each time step of the episode.
We can compute Rho from t
to T minus 1 incrementally.
To see why, let's write out
the product at each time step.
Recall that the Monte
Carlo algorithm loops
over time steps backwards.
So on the first step
of the algorithm,
W is set to Rho on
the last time step.
On the next time step,
W is the second last Rho times
the last Rho, and so on.
Each time step adds
one additional term to
the product and reuses
all previous terms.
We can compute this
recursively without
having to store
all past values of Rho.
That's it for this video.
In this video, we used
the important sampling ratios to
correct the returns generated by
the behavior policy
and we modified
the on policy Monte Carlo
prediction algorithm
for off-policy learning.